Docs 3404 update storage articles (#1592)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALEUIReference/Storage/Pools/DevicesScreensSCALE.md

---
title: "Devices Screens"
description: "This article provides information on the **Devices** screen and widget settings and functions."
weight: 30
aliases:
tags:
- scaledevices
- scaledisks
- scalevdevs
- scalesed
- scalesmart
---

{{< toc >}}

The **Devices** screen lists VDEVS configured for the selected pool. 

![DevicesScreenDataVdevsUnexpanded](/images/SCALE/22.12/DevicesScreenDataVdevsUnexpanded.png "Devices Data VDEV Unexpanded")  

Click anywhere on the VDEV to see the drives included in it and the **ZFS Info** widget for that VDEV.

![DevicesMirrorVDEVSelected](/images/SCALE/22.12/DevicesMirrorVDEVSelected.png "Devices Mirror VDEV Expanded") 

Click anywhere on a drive to see the [drive widgets](#disk-widgets).

**Add VDEV** opens the **Add a VDEVs to Pool** screen with the **[Pool Manager]({{< relref "PoolManagerScreens.md" >}})** for the selected pool. For example, click **Manage Devices** on the **Topology** widget for your existing pool (i.e., *tank*) opens the **Pool Manager** with *tank* preselected and uneditible. 

## ZFS Info Widget (VDEV)

> There are two versions of the **ZFS Info** widget, one for the VDEV the other for each drive in the VDEV. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TrueNAS has two versions of the **ZFS Info** widget, one for the VDEV and the other for each drive in the VDEV. 
```

> The **ZFS Info** widget for the VDEV displays a count of read, write and checksum errors for that VDEV, and the **Extend** and **Remove** options. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **ZFS Info** widget for the VDEV displays a count of read, write, and checksum errors for that VDEV, and the **Extend** and **Remove** options. 
```

![DevicesVDEVZFSInfoWidget](/images/SCALE/22.12/DevicesVDEVZFSInfoWidget.png "Devices Details for Mirror ZFS Info Widget")  

**Extend** opens the **Extend VDEV** dialog where you select a disk from the **New Disk** dropdown to add a new disk to the VDEV.

![DevicesExtendVDEVDialog](/images/SCALE/22.12/DevicesExtendVDEVDialog.png "Devices Extend VDEV Dialog")  

**Remove** opens the **Remove device** dialog where you confirm you want to remove the selected VDEV. 

> To remove a drive from the VDEV, select the drive then select **Detach** on the **[ZFS Info](#zfs-info-widget-drives)** widget to remove the drive from the VDEV (pool).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove a drive from the VDEV, select the drive, then select **Detach** on the **[ZFS Info](#zfs-info-widget-drives)** widget to remove the drive from the VDEV (pool).
```

## Disk Widgets
Each disk in a VDEV has a set of four widgets that provide information on that disk. 

> After selecting a disk the widgets display on the right side of the screen in the **Details for *diskname*** area of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After selecting a disk, the widgets display on the right side of the screen in the **Details for *diskname*** area of the screen.
```

![ManualSMARTTestSupportDialog](/images/SCALE/22.12/ManualSMARTTestSupportDialog.png "Devices Disk S.M.A.R.T. Test Support Dialog") 

The **Type** dropdown list includes the **LONG**, **SHORT**, **CONVEYANCE**, and **OFFLINE** options, and the **Cancel** and **Start** buttons.
{{< /expand >}}

### Disk Info Widget
The **Disk Info** widget displays information on the **Disk Size**, **Transfer Mode**, the **Serial** and **Model** numbers for the drive, the **Type** of drive it is, the **HDD Standby** setting and any **Description** associated with the selected drive.
{{< expand "Click Here for More Information" "v" >}}

![DeviceDiskInfoWidget](/images/SCALE/22.12/DeviceDiskInfoWidget.png "Devices Disk Info Widget") 

**Replace** opens the **Replacing disk *diskname*** dialog, where *diskname* is the name of the selected disk.

![ReplacingDiskDialog](/images/SCALE/22.12/ReplacingDiskDialog.png "Replacing Disk Dialog") 

Select the new disk for the pool from the **Member Disk** dropdown list. 
The system prevents losing existing data by stopping the add operation for the new disk if the disk is already in use or has partitions present.

> **Force** overrides safety check and adds the disk to the pool. Selecting this option erases any data stored on the disk!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Force** overrides the safety check and adds the disk to the pool. Selecting this option erases any data stored on the disk!
```
